When we think about effective communication, we often focus on how to
get our point across, and how others will interpret our message.
But that's only half of the story.
Communication isn't just about giving
information—it's also about gathering it.
The key to effective communication is listening.
Yes, you’ll have a message to share, but to truly build strong and
meaningful relationships, you need to listen—not just to the words,
but also to the tone and body language of the other person.
It’s easy to focus only on your point, especially when emotions run
high or you're under pressure.
But that’s a missed opportunity.
When you REALLY listen to the other person’s message, you're more
likely to find common ground, work together, and even discover new
solutions to challenges.
At times, our emotions can hijack our thoughts, making us feel like
we must speak our truth immediately.
But if your goal is to build strong relationships, speaking out of
emotion might not help.
Instead, take a step back, pause, and listen.
Reflect on your communication style.
Do you listen attentively?
Are there moments when you listen more than others?
What could you do to become a better listener?
Here’s a practical tip: before meetings, set an intention to learn
something new from the conversation.
Afterward, take a moment to reflect on what you’ve learned, whether
it's from words, body language, or dynamics in the room.
By mastering active listening, you'll ensure that communication flows
equally between you and the other person, creating better
understanding and stronger relationships.
Remember, it all starts with listening before speaking.
Give it a try, and watch how your relationships and
communication improve.